# Entry 6
##### 06/03/2024

After a whole year of doing the project, I finally got able to reveal my [product](https://shubataf2489.github.io/shubataf2489-shellyw8542-sep11-freedom-project/) to the whole community to see what I and my partner created. I was able to present it to my classmates and also at the expo which I will be going over in this entry. 

After the Beyond MVP, we had to explain our coding, process, struggles, and takeaways with our projects. My partner found that we should split our takeaways and struggles together because explaining our work and struggles was a bit more difficult if we didn't face them. We also explained our part of coding so it would be easier to explain what is happening to the code. There were some difficulties that we had when making the slides because I didn't know what my partner was planning to say what she wanted to say and what I wanted to say too. The most important part for me in the slides were the coding, struggles, and overall takeaways. 
```js
  document.body.addEventListener("keydown", function(event) {
         if (event.code === "Space") {// shoots bullets every time space is pressed 
                 if (event.code === "Space") {
                    var bullet = document.createElement('a-sphere');//important- makes new bullets
                    bullet.setAttribute('position', 
 document.addEventListener() {
     var camera = document.getElementById('camera'); // makes the camera focus in a (0,0,0) positions
```
I was going to explain this coding, but a tip that I've been using is adding some comments for my code. I add the comments in the code to make sure that I still understand my code and also verify that my explanation is valid. I explained that whenever the key is down the function "event" will run. The event code would run if it is the key of the spacebar and then it would create a sphere that acts like a bullet. I also explain in depth some struggles that I had like creating the shoot function and my positioning. As for the solution to use this line of code that Shubata gave me `<a-scene physics="debug: true">` and also for the positioning problem, I used my learning log to help my memories. I also explain the takeaways of communication because I feel like I've been communicating multiple times with my partner and I feel like communication helped me a lot throughout the project the most. My partner would always be trying to help with my struggles since she's been using a frame and being comfortable around it. I've been asking her for a lot of help and also making sure that we stay on task. I've also been using gifs throughout the project to make it more convenient for myself and the audience instead of having live demos, I found it quite difficult to explain and play the game instead of just explaining what is happening in the game. But overall I found the presentation of our project to be successful, and also an accomplishment. However, we needed to start preparing for our elevator pitch and expo. 

For the expo, I found it to be more calming and also more casual than the presentation. I would rehearse my elevator pitch with my partner when the judges came to us and we would find what would each person say. My partner would say the hook and the product that we made while I would explain how the functionality of the project and how the code works. It turned out to be a fun experience because I was able to display my year-long project. When people would stand near my project I would try to drag them towards my project, I also like how I could see everyone else from SEP display their projects. I enjoyed this year's expo because I was happy with my project and how it was finally able to shoot and explain to my peers about my struggles.

I am currently at steps 7 and 8 of the engineering design process where I am improving some last-minute changes final coding my product and communicating the results to my peers. Overall I had a lot of fun creating, displaying, and presenting my project. I've learned many skills when creating my freedom project like Communication, Collaboration, Creativity, Debugging, Time management, and How to learn. I've used all of those skills to help me with my project like communicating with my partner, using creativity with my code and the idea of the project to make the product look efficient and well, I use debugging to help with my difficult problems in the code, time management to efficiently finish my MVP and beyond MVP, and also learning my tool and how to code it the way I wanted. During this entry, I've practiced the skills of Communication, Organization, and Creativity to help debrief my whole year-long project in a matter of a couple of minutes with my partner. I've continued to use communication to explain to my partner what we would be presenting and also uses the skill of organization to format the slides and what to say first. I also use creativity as to how I will be able to present the project in a more engaging and interesting towards the audience. 

[Previous](entry05.md) | [Next](entry07.md)

[Home](../README.md)
